# busy-beavers

A highly incomplete, in-progress personal project, aiming to resolve the halting problem for quintuple formulation Turing Machines with small numbers of states (which, as a corollary, can be used to prove the numerical value of small values of the busy beaver function). The halting problem is uncomputable in general, so the program will of course eventually run into a machine it can't handle and report as much. The game is to make it as far as possible before that happens, but currently the program isn't very good - previous results reach as far as n=4, but I haven't yet made the program good enough to replicate that. 

The program also isn't very good in terms of organization or documentation, since this is very much a work in progress that I work on in my spare time. If I keep working on the project into the future, I may work more on the code being more organized and readable as I make progress, especially if the program is powerful enough to actually prove something interesting (eg resolving the halting status of machines not yet resolved). I usually only commit code that compiles, but tests will often be failing, since I like writing tests to expose the current flaws in my program and some of the flaws can be pretty tricky to fix. There could always be more tests, and I'm sure there are a few bugs, but I think for the most part when my program makes claims to have proved a machine to halt or not halt, it's correct most of the time. It simply doesn't make such claims about very many machines right now. 